README.md, before:

> **Note to readers:** The Ditto protocol implemented in this repo is currently under developement and will soon be published. In the meantime, you may be interested in the [2-chain HotStuff](https://github.com/asonnino/hotstuff) and [3-chain HotStuff](https://github.com/asonnino/hotstuff/tree/3-chain) that implements the classic HotStuff protocol.

# Ditto

[![build status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/danielxiangzl/hotstuff/Build/main?style=flat-square&logo=github)](https://github.com/danielxiangzl/hotstuff/actions)
[![test status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/danielxiangzl/hotstuff/Tests/main?style=flat-square&logo=github&label=tests)](https://github.com/danielxiangzl/hotstuff/actions)
[![rustc](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.50.0+-blue?style=flat-square&logo=rust)](https://www.rust-lang.org)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

This repo provides a minimal implementation of the Ditto protocol, which is 2-chain HotStuff with asynchronous fallback. The codebase has been designed to be small, efficient, and easy to benchmark and modify. It has not been designed to run in production but uses real cryptography ([dalek](https://doc.dalek.rs/ed25519_dalek)), networking ([tokio](https://docs.rs/tokio)), and storage ([rocksdb](https://docs.rs/rocksdb)). More details about the protocol can be found in our paper [Jolteon and Ditto: Network-Adaptive Efficient Consensus with Asynchronous Fallback](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.10362).

## Quick Start
Ditto is written in Rust, but all benchmarking scripts are written in Python and run with [Fabric](http://www.fabfile.org/).
To deploy and benchmark a testbed of 4 nodes on your local machine, clone the repo and install the python dependencies:
```
$ git clone https://github.com/danielxiangzl/hotstuff.git
$ cd hotstuff/benchmark
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```
You also need to install Clang (required by rocksdb) and [tmux](https://linuxize.com/post/getting-started-with-tmux/#installing-tmux) (which runs all nodes and clients in the background). Finally, run a local benchmark using fabric:
```
$ fab local
```
This command may take a long time the first time you run it (compiling rust code in `release` mode may be slow) and you can customize a number of benchmark parameters in `fabfile.py`. When the benchmark terminates, it displays a summary of the execution similarly to the one below.
```
-----------------------------------------
 SUMMARY:
-----------------------------------------
 + CONFIG:
 Committee size: 4 nodes
 Input rate: 1,000 tx/s
 Transaction size: 512 B
 Faults: 0 nodes
 Execution time: 20 s

 Consensus max payloads size: 500 B
 Consensus min block delay: 0 ms
 Mempool max payloads size: 15,000 B
 Mempool min block delay: 0 ms

 + RESULTS:
 Consensus TPS: 966 tx/s
 Consensus BPS: 494,627 B/s
 Consensus latency: 1 ms

 End-to-end TPS: 966 tx/s
 End-to-end BPS: 494,576 B/s
 End-to-end latency: 4 ms
-----------------------------------------
```

## Next Steps
The [wiki](https://github.com/asonnino/hotstuff/wiki) documents the codebase, explains its architecture and how to read benchmarks' results, and provides a step-by-step tutorial to run [benchmarks on Amazon Web Services](https://github.com/asonnino/hotstuff/wiki/AWS-Benchmarks) accross multiple data centers (WAN).

## License
This software is licensed as [Apache 2.0](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Implement an in-memory storage to replace rocksdb

README.md, after:

> This repo implements an in-memory store to replace the original RocksDB in Ditto, which is used to evaluate the consensus performance without being affected by the data persistence.
> 
> 
> **Note to readers:** The Ditto protocol implemented in this repo is currently under developement and will soon be published. In the meantime, you may be interested in the [2-chain HotStuff](https://github.com/asonnino/hotstuff) and [3-chain HotStuff](https://github.com/asonnino/hotstuff/tree/3-chain) that implements the classic HotStuff protocol.

# Ditto

[![build status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/danielxiangzl/hotstuff/Build/main?style=flat-square&logo=github)](https://github.com/danielxiangzl/hotstuff/actions)
[![test status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/danielxiangzl/hotstuff/Tests/main?style=flat-square&logo=github&label=tests)](https://github.com/danielxiangzl/hotstuff/actions)
[![rustc](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.50.0+-blue?style=flat-square&logo=rust)](https://www.rust-lang.org)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

This repo provides a minimal implementation of the Ditto protocol, which is 2-chain HotStuff with asynchronous fallback. The codebase has been designed to be small, efficient, and easy to benchmark and modify. It has not been designed to run in production but uses real cryptography ([dalek](https://doc.dalek.rs/ed25519_dalek)), networking ([tokio](https://docs.rs/tokio)), and storage ([rocksdb](https://docs.rs/rocksdb)). More details about the protocol can be found in our paper [Jolteon and Ditto: Network-Adaptive Efficient Consensus with Asynchronous Fallback](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.10362).

## Quick Start
Ditto is written in Rust, but all benchmarking scripts are written in Python and run with [Fabric](http://www.fabfile.org/).
To deploy and benchmark a testbed of 4 nodes on your local machine, clone the repo and install the python dependencies:
```
$ git clone https://github.com/danielxiangzl/hotstuff.git
$ cd hotstuff/benchmark
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```
You also need to install Clang (required by rocksdb) and [tmux](https://linuxize.com/post/getting-started-with-tmux/#installing-tmux) (which runs all nodes and clients in the background). Finally, run a local benchmark using fabric:
```
$ fab local
```
This command may take a long time the first time you run it (compiling rust code in `release` mode may be slow) and you can customize a number of benchmark parameters in `fabfile.py`. When the benchmark terminates, it displays a summary of the execution similarly to the one below.
```
-----------------------------------------
 SUMMARY:
-----------------------------------------
 + CONFIG:
 Committee size: 4 nodes
 Input rate: 1,000 tx/s
 Transaction size: 512 B
 Faults: 0 nodes
 Execution time: 20 s

 Consensus max payloads size: 500 B
 Consensus min block delay: 0 ms
 Mempool max payloads size: 15,000 B
 Mempool min block delay: 0 ms

 + RESULTS:
 Consensus TPS: 966 tx/s
 Consensus BPS: 494,627 B/s
 Consensus latency: 1 ms

 End-to-end TPS: 966 tx/s
 End-to-end BPS: 494,576 B/s
 End-to-end latency: 4 ms
-----------------------------------------
```

## Next Steps
The [wiki](https://github.com/asonnino/hotstuff/wiki) documents the codebase, explains its architecture and how to read benchmarks' results, and provides a step-by-step tutorial to run [benchmarks on Amazon Web Services](https://github.com/asonnino/hotstuff/wiki/AWS-Benchmarks) accross multiple data centers (WAN).

## License
This software is licensed as [Apache 2.0](LICENSE).
